Hi there.
This is De La Rue and welcome back.
So in the last lecture, we have seen how we can programmatically read data from the database.
So we have loaded all the data needed from the database.
And now we will see how we can programmatically write data to the database.
Now, in order to do that, what we are going to do as we are going to look at the bookmarking process
itself.
In the previous lecture we have commented this code out the START method and the START method actually
initiates the bookmarking process.
So this start is invoking this is in the launch Java, it's invoking the start method and here we are
iterating through each of the users and we are simulating the bookmarking process for each of the user
and view as a class you may recall.
And it corresponds to the UI.
Since we don't have the UI, we are just use making use of this Java class and there is this method
called Browse which has been appropriately named and the browser will take just the two parameters user
as well as all of the bookmarks.
So it's a list of list of bookmarks.
So the internal list would be a list of a particular bookmark type like a list of book, list of books
or list of movies.
So one element would be list of books.
Another element would be list of movies, and the third one would be list of web links.
So it's a list of list of items.
Now here we are iterating through this particular data structure.
So in each iteration, we are we are going to look at a particular item, a particular type of item,
like a list of books or a list of movies.
So and then we are iterating through that particular list of that particular type of bookmark.
So in one of the iterations it could be a list of books.
So here that's what we are doing and we are getting a bookmark decision.
So we are using randomization process.
If you click on this, you can see that it's a random process.
So we are not really asking the user for a particular decision whether he or she wants to bookmark or
not.
But we are just using randomization process.
You may recall that and once if this particular method returns a true, then we are.
It means that the user is interested and bookmarking that particular item and we are notifying the back
end.
So this is like the UI and we are passing that information to the back end.
So in the back end we have the controller.
So if if you recall, we were, we discussed about the MVC design pattern and we have written our code
in the same pattern using the same pattern.
So we have the controller there in the back end.
So this is the first place in the back end where in the, on the server side where the request would
be received.
So we are invoking this method called save user bookmark and we are passing the user information as
well as the bookmark information that the user is interested in.
Bookmark.
Right.
And if you click that.
So this would be like a controller.
So it says servlet.
It would be a servlet in a real Java application, and this controller would invoke a method in the
manager.
So we have the bookmark managers and the manager would in turn invoke the DAO layer, right.
So it would be controller to manager manager to.
So it is going to invoke a similarly named method called save user bookmark.
And this is how it looks.
So I did not change anything.
So here we are creating an instance of this class called this user bookmark, which maintains the relationship
between a user and a bookmark.
It means that this particular user has bookmark.
This particular bookmark and this bookmark could be any of the three types of bookmarks book, movie,
or a web link.
And we also have some old code here.
Let's just remove it.
And finally, we are invoking the Dowler.
And Dowler is is what actually interacts with the database right in our code.
We are just simply storing it in a data structure by invoking this ad method.
Now we are going to replace this and we are going to.
Sorry for that.
We are going to add some code here.
We went right to the database.
So this is a user bookmark.
But in the database, let's just maintain three different tables called user underscore book, user
underscore movie and user underscore web link to capture the user bookmarking actions.
So that's what we are going to do and we still have to create those tables.
So I have already created the tables here, user underscore book and it would have three columns ID,
user underscore ID and book underscore ID.
And so this is a user underscore book.
So it would keep track of all the books that have been bookmarked by the different users.
That's why you have user underscore ID and book underscore ID and user underscore ID would reference
the ID and the user table and book underscore ID would reference the ID in the book table.
And similarly, you have user underscore movie and user underscore web link and user underscore movie
that the foreign keys are user underscore ID and movie underscore ID, which is referencing the ID in
movie and similarly in user underscore web link.
So once again, you have the user underscore ID and a weblink underscore ID and weblink underscore ID
would reference the ID in the weblink.
So let's go ahead and just execute these three different queries.
I'm already here.
That's it.
So all three tables have been created.
Now, let's go back into our code here.
Now.
So this is no longer needed.
So we need to create, right, our new code to insert all of the data in the user bookmark.
So here.
It's this.
Copy this code.
We need to get a connection to the database, and we need to execute the statements.
Now, here, just note that here we are using the same connection object when we are accessing when
we are retrieving the data.
In each of these methods.
So just remember that and both connection, object and statement.
Both of them have closed methods and since we are using a try with resource's syntax so the closed methods
would be automatically invoked.
Go back to.
Bookmark.
Doyle, let me just put this.
Let me remove these four statements.
Right.
So this is what we have.
So we discussed that already.
Now.
Let's try three different methods here.
Let's just say so we have this user bookmark.
Let's say user.
Bookmark dot.
Get bookmark.
Now, if it is an instance of a book, this particular book is an instance of book.
Let's invoke a method called Save User Book and let's pass this user bookmark.
Which has the information about the user as well as the bookmark.
And let's also pass this statement object.
And let's do the same.
This would be us.
And let's make this movie.
In which case let's invoke a method called user movie.
And in this case, let's invoke a method called user.
Weblink.
And we don't need this because it's an l slope.
Let's remove that.
So this is what we have.
So let me just add this.
Create.
Create a private method.
Here it is.
So now we need to build our query.
So let's say string query.
So we created the user underscore book table.
So for inserting we know that it would be insert into.
User underscore Burke.
And we need to put the user.
Underscore ID.
Come on.
So if you you're here, you can see that the user underscore has user underscore ID and book underscore
ID and the ID field is auto increment, so it will be automatically created.
So we just need to add the user ID underscore and book underscore ID and we can do it from the user
bookmark instance there.
And the second is, so it's just like the insert query which we created earlier in one of the earlier
lectures.
It's just that we are constructing a similar kind of insert statement and we are passing it to our database.
We are the statement.
We we are the statement object.
So values.
Speech concatenation and we need to give the.
User underscore ID.
So that would be.
This.
Get user dot get ID.
CUOMO So the next value would be the underscore ID, so we would say user bookmark.
Just remember that it has both user as well as book.
So let's say get.
Bookmark.
Don't get ID and that's it.
We just have to close it here.
Now we just say statement dot.
It's a cute.
Update.
So if you recall in data store here we had.
Execute query.
So if you are if you are executing a select query, you would use execute query.
But if you are going to insert or update or delete or if you're using one of those statements or even
if you're creating a table which is from the programmatically, which is very, very rare, even for
that you would you would use an execute update.
So this is a different method and statement object.
And here it says that executes the given statement, which may be an insert update or delete or even
an SQL statement that returns nothing.
So this method would it would return an end.
Okay.
So it would return the number of rows that have been updated.
So if we insert a single row, it would it would return a value of one executable.
It would return a value of one or it says or zero zero would be when we execute like a create statement.
So anyway, so this is, that's what it is.
So let's do that.
This is going through an obscure exception they say throws.
That's it.
Now you just have two more methods.
For this also it would be.
The same kind of query.
So let me copy it.
So this would be user underscore.
Movie and this would be movie underscore.
Heidi.
And this would also throw exception.
And.
That's it.
So that's what the movie did is still the same and for movie underscore ID it's just to get bookmarked
on dot get bookmarked, get it.
There is no change there.
And this is the Web link.
Create method.
Just copy this.
What draws.
And this would be.
That's it.
So we have all the three methods in place.
You save it.
And.
In the view method.
So this is the code that is being used.
There is also this code for marking as kid friendly and mark and sharing the bookmark.
So I commented that code for now because it also requires some some database changes.
So we are just going to look at this.
So let's go ahead and launch and let me run this.
Okay.
So let me let's look at the database.
So as you can see, the user bookmarks table has been populated.
So this word captured the all of the actions, which means that this user has bookmarked this particular
ID book with this particular ID.
So if we can join the tables, we can easily see what what has been bookmarked.
But you can see that the bookmarking process has happened successfully for that table.
And you also see that.
Four more years, too.
So that's about it.
That's how you would insert data in a programmatic way.
And we have we could refactor our code.
And in the next lecture we will also look at the update queries.
We would have a new type of query called update, which would modify the data.
And for that we will be.
Uncomment this and we will make some changes in the database.
So that's about it.
Thank you and happy coding.